Docs for runner profiles (#2491)
hashicorp/waypoint: website/content/docs/runner/index.mdx

  Waypoint utilizes "runners" to execute Waypoint operations remotely. Runners are responsible for performing builds and deploys, polling projects for changes, and more.
---

# Waypoint Runners

Waypoint utilizes "runners" to execute operations. Every build, deploy, or release operation happens on
a Waypoint runner. Waypoint has three kinds of runners:

### CLI Runner

When you trigger an action with the CLI, i.e. by running `waypoint deploy`, the CLI acts as a runner

> capable of performing your operation. If your deployment needs aws credentials, or a valid kubectl context,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
capable of performing your operation. If your deployment needs AWS credentials, or a valid kubectl context,
```

it can access the credentials on the developer workstation that it's running on.

If you only use Waypoint from the CLI, this is the only kind of runner that is used.

### Remote Runner

Not every operation in Waypoint needs to happen in response to a CLI invocation from a privelaged workstation.
Waypoint can trigger deployments from the UI or automatically based on git changes, or automatically
poll the status of applications in the background. In these cases, Waypoint needs a "remote runner", a long-lived
runner that is always available to run these operations.

Waypoint automatically installs a single remote runner by default when the Waypoint
server is installed with [`waypoint install`](/commands/install).

### On-demand runners

> While the remote runner is capable of performing operations on its own, on supported platforms it instead spawns
> on-demand runners - ephemeral container instances that perform one operation before exiting. These on-demand runners can
> perform container builds without any privileged access, offer more isolation between operations, and allow Waypoint
> to scale further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the remote runner is capable of performing operations on its own, it also supports plugins
to spawn on-demand runners for a given platform. These on-demand runners are ephemeral container instances that perform one operation before exiting. These on-demand runners can
perform container builds without any privileged access, offer more isolation between operations, and allow Waypoint
to scale further.
```
